# lung-chestxray-classification
Lung Disease Classification from Chest X ray images using deep learning 

Detection of lung nodules from medical images at an early stage is crucial for lung cancer diagnosis and treatments. The radiologists use Computer Aided Diagnosis (CAD) systems to assist them in analyzing the vast amount of image data. However, these systems have limitations and give false positive detections especially when the nodules are tiny. This research thesis presents the study of using a subset of artificial intelligence system known as deep learning and uses one of its algorithms to detect lung cancer cells from chest x-ray images. The objectives for this project are (1) to be able to extract a lung cancer nodule in an x-ray (2) to be able to classify lung cancer cells using a classification technique of deep learning and (3) to develop an expert system to detect lung cancer. The image dataset is taken from the National Institute of Health (NIH) which includes 5,606 samples with 15 classes (14 common lung disease labels and “No Finding”). The disease class chosen for this research is “Infiltration.” The images are preprocessed using a set of image processing methods and are fed to the deep learning algorithm, Convolutional Neural Network (CNN), which is trained from scratch on Nvidia GPU to extract important features from the images automatically and to detect the nodules in chest x rays. The error outputs got during the training process are adjusted and updated using the backpropagation algorithm. The overall test accuracy of the trained algorithm achieved after training is 82.71%. The area under the receiver operating curve (AUROC) is used for evaluating and measuring the performance of the algorithm over unseen samples. For easier accessibility, as a prototype platform, the algorithm is served and deployed using Python Flask API on a web browser.
